# 2.2 Multivariable linear regression

## 2.2.1 Understanding Multivariable Variables

In the content of Section 2.1, we introduced in detail what linear regression is and a typical application scenario, and also introduced how to build a simple linear regression model using the open-source sklearn. We believe that by now, all readers have already gained a certain understanding of the core idea of linear regression. Next, we will continue to learn the subsequent content of linear regression. 

Here we will continue to use housing price prediction as an example for introduction. Although the main factor affecting housing prices is area, other factors may also influence the price of a house. For example, the distance from the house to schools, hospitals, and large shopping malls, etc. Although in real life it is generally not quantified in this way, developers always use school district housing as a selling point, so at this time there are four factors that affect housing prices, which in Machine Learning we call features or attributes. Therefore, linear regression that includes multiple features is called Multiple Linear Regression. 

## 2.2.2 Multivariable linear regression Modeling

Taking the Boston Housing Price Dataset as an example, it contains a total of 13 feature attributes, so the following linear regression model can be obtained. 
$$
h(x)=w_{1}x_{1}+\cdots +w_{13}x_{13}+b\tag{2-3}
$$


And at the same time, its objective function is 


$$
\begin{cases}J(W,b)=\frac{1}{2m}\sum_{i=1}^m(y^{(i)}-\hat{y}^{(i)})^2\\[2ex] \hat{y}^{(i)}=h(x^{(i)})=w_1x_1^{(i)}+\cdots + w_{13}x_{13}^{(i)}+b \end{cases}\tag{2-4}
$$


where $x^{(i)}_j$ represents the $j$-th feature attribute of the $i$-th sample; $W$ is a vector representing all weights; $b$ is a scalar representing the bias. 

As can be seen from the content introduced in Section 2.1, as long as the objective function $J(W,b)$ is minimized by a certain method, the parameters corresponding to the model can be solved. However, before that, let's first take a look at how to perform modeling and solving using sklearn.

## 2.2.3 Code for Multivariable Regression

Below, we still take the example of using sklearn to build and solve a multivariable linear regression model. The complete code can be found in the `AllBookCode/Chapter02/02_boston_price_train.py` file.

**1. Import the dataset**

Here, we directly import a built-in Boston housing price dataset from sklearn as an example for demonstration, and the code is as follows: 

```Python
1 from sklearn.datasets import fetch_california_housing
2 def load_data():
3     data = fetch_california_housing()
4     x = data.data
5     y = data.target
6     return x, y
```

**2. Solution and Results**

Train the model and output the corresponding weight parameters and predicted values. The code is as follows: 

```Python
1 def train(x, y):
2     model = LinearRegression()
3     model.fit(x,y)
4     print("weight",model.coef_,"bias:",model.intercept_)
5     print("The predicted and true price of the 12th house:",model.predict(x[12,:].reshape(1,-1)))
```

Based on the above, the establishment and solution of the multivariable linear regression model have been completed, and the weight parameters corresponding to each feature have also been obtained. However, since it is difficult to visualize high-dimensional data, the quality of the model can only be evaluated from the prediction results here. The specific model evaluation metrics will be introduced in Section 2.4.

## 2.2.4 Summary

In this section, we first introduced what multivariable regression is, which is a linear regression model containing multiple feature dimensions; then, still taking room prediction as an example, we introduced the modeling process of multivariable linear regression; finally, we covered how to use sklearn to complete the modeling task of multivariable linear regression. 